---
layout: post
title:      "More SQL ..."
date:       2018-01-12 18:14:27 -0500
permalink:  more_sql
---

I found a few more SQL statements and operators that can be useful.


**SELECT DISTINCT**
 
This is used if you	want	to	list	only	the	different	(distinct)	values	in	a	table. 

For example: 
```
SELECT DISTINCT LastName 
FROM Customers
```

This will	return	only	distinct	last names from the Customers' database.


**LIKE**
It is	used	to	search	for	a	specified	pattern	in	a	column. 

'%' and '_' can be used with LIKE as a wildcard. 
'%' is	substitute	for	zero	or	more	characters
'_' is substitute	for	exactly	one	character*

For example:
```
SELECT LastName
FROM Customers
WHERE Last_Name LIKE 'a%'
```

This will	return	last names from the Customers' database that start with a.

Other ways to use the wildcard:
Return values ending with a certain character: '%a'
Return values that have a certain character chain: '%and%'
Return values that have a certain character in the second position:  '_a%'
Return values that starts with be and has at least 2 more folowing characters: 'be_ _%' (such as Berlin or Bern)
Return values that starts and ends with a certain character:  'k%n' (such as Koppenhagen)

**ANY**
The ANY operator returns true if any of the values meet the condition.

```
SELECT LastName 
FROM Customers
WHERE CustomerID = ANY (SELECT CustomerID FROM Addresses WHERE ZipCode = 87654);
```

This statement returns the last names if it finds *any* records in the Address  table where  the zipcode is 87654.

**ALL**
This only returns true if all of the values meet the condition.

```
SELECT LastName 
FROM Customers
WHERE CustomerID = ANY (SELECT CustomerID FROM Addresses WHERE ZipCode = 87654);
```

This only returns true if all of the values meet the condition.

This SQL statement  lists the last names if *all* the records in the Addresses table has the  certain ZipCode.

**UNION**
This is simlar to join, but the UNION operator selects only distinct values by default. 

```
SELECT LastName FROM Customers
UNION
SELECT LastName FROM Suppliers
ORDER BY LastName;
```

This would return all the distinct last names within the two databases. 













